sub-packages/bionemo-rldif/README.md, before:

# RLDIF 

Welcome to RLDIF! RLDIF is a protein inverse folding model built to provide diverse sequences that fold into your target structure. Our paper demonstrates that the sequences generated by RLDIF have higher diversity than those generated by ProteinMPNN and PiFold. 

To run RLDIF from this directory, follow the following steps:

1. Create the environment from the requirements.txt 

2. Modify the config file in the config folder, specifically these entries
    1. name: This is the name of the output file with the generated sequences
    2. num_samples: This is the number of sequences generated for a given input structure.
    3. data -> dataset_name: This must be 'custom_pdb' so the dataloader knows it is loading in pdbs.
    4. data -> custom_pdb_path: This is the path to a txt file that contains the path to the pdb files that you want to design sequences for. This txt file should just be a list of pdb paths in a single column.

3. To run RLDIF just run "python -m run.run" from this directory.

The resulting file contains the following columns:

- `name`: for the name of the PDB file
- `pred`: for the RLDIF generated sequence
- `real`: for the real sequence from the PDB file
- `tm_score`: If you have the means to fold the result, this is a column where the tm-score between the folded predicted structure and the folded real structure would show up. Right now this is default to None, if users want this feature raise an issue and I can add it.

Commit message:

rldif pip install finalized and test added

sub-packages/bionemo-rldif/README.md, after:

# RLDIF 

Welcome to RLDIF! RLDIF is a protein inverse folding model built to provide diverse sequences that fold into your target structure. Our paper demonstrates that the sequences generated by RLDIF have higher diversity than those generated by ProteinMPNN and PiFold. 

To run RLDIF from this directory, first run

```bash
pip install -e .

```
from this directory to install the package. 

Then to generate sequences for your pdb files of interest run the following code

```python
pdb_file_paths = ['pdb_path_one', 'pdb_path_two']
config = RLDIFConfig()
model = RLDIF(config).cuda()

model.initialize()
dataloader = RLDIFDataset(pdb_file_paths).return_dataloader(model)

#You can modify num_samples to change the number of sequences generated per pdb input
result = RLDIF_Generator(model, dataloader, num_samples=4)
```

The resulting file contains the following columns:

- `name`: for the name of the PDB file
- `pred`: for the RLDIF generated sequence
- `real`: for the real sequence from the PDB file
- `tm_score`: If you have the means to fold the result, this is a column where the tm-score between the folded predicted structure and the folded real structure would show up. Right now this is default to None, if users want this feature raise an issue and I can add it.
