docs/docs/user-guide/contributing/contributing.md, before:

# Contributing Guidelines

!!! note
    For code review standards please see the [Code Review](code-review.md) page.

    For all PRs, an approved NVIDIA staff member must sign off and trigger the continuous integration (CI) tests.
    These are initiated by the member commenting `/build-ci` directly on the PR. All PRs must have successful CI runs and
    sufficient code review before being merged.

## Python Coding Standards

This page contains the Python coding standards for the BioNeMo repository. They apply to all Python code in the
repository (unless external constraints prevent it).

## Coding Style
- We follow the [Google Python Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html) with a few tweaks.
- The most important parts of this style guide that our code must adhere to are:
  - [Docstring](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#381-docstrings)
  - [Mutable global state](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#25-mutable-global-state)
  - [Do not use mutable values as default arguments](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#212-default-argument-values)
  - [Default iterators](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#28-default-iterators-and-operators)
  - [Bad naming / abbreviation](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#316-naming)
- The exceptions to this style guide are:
    + [Module](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#22-imports) imports. If a module is uniquely named, import
    the module. Otherwise, import the value, type, or function directly.
- Linting and formatting of all code is required by using `ruff` with BioNeMo's configured options.
- Unit testing with `pytest`.
- Add type annotations everywhere. In particular, new code should all be type-annotated as thoroughly as possible. This
  also obviates the need for including type hints in the function docstring. It is ok to omit annotations for private
  helper functions, but use your best judgement.
- Include docstrings for every class, function, and method exposed to the user.
    + Docstrings **should** answer (a) what is the code doing and (b) why would someone use it.
- Never use wildcard imports.
- Define `__all__ = (,)` in modules: make explicit the API of each module, auto-documenting the most important definitions.
- Minimize the use of `**kwargs`.
- `raise` an `Exception` instead of using an `assert` statement.
- F-strings are preferred to format strings.
- Loggers are preferred to print. In BioNeMo, you can use logger from `import logging`.
- Private functions (functions starting with ``_``) shouldn't be called outside its host file.

### General Guidelines
- **User-oriented**: make it easy for end users, even at the cost of writing more code in the background
- **Robust**: make it hard for users to make mistakes.
- **Well-tested**: please add simple, fast unit tests.
- **Reusable**: for every piece of code, think about how it can be reused in the future and make it easy to reuse.
- **Readable**: code should be easy to read and well documented (with comments and docstrings).
- **Legal**: if you copy even one line of code from the Internet, make sure that the code allows the license that
  BioNeMo supports. Give credit and link back to the code.
- **Sensible**: code should make sense. If you think a piece of code might be confusing, write comments.
- **Consistent**: we work in a team. It is important to integrate changes with existing code.
- **Readable**: your code should be easy to read and understand by any other engineer, including outside NVIDIA. Some
  tips:
    + Document your code. Make all comments complete sentences, starting with a capitalized letter and ending with a
    period.
    + Avoid abbreviations: 'bn' is harder to understand than 'batch_norm'.
    + Avoid baked-in constants throughout the code. Instead, specify them as parameters to your function. If you must have
    a constant, follow the naming guideline (e.g., `GLOBAL_CONSTANT`).
    + Avoid functions that span hundreds of lines. Large functions are more difficult to read and more difficult to test.
    If >120 lines, consider re-factoring it into smaller logical functions, each unit-tested and well-documented.
    + Re-use code by importing. **Do not copy and paste code.**
    + Usage of third-party code should be legally compatible and attributed.



## Pull Request (PR) Guidelines
### Signing Your Work

* We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits (not GPG signing, just adding the `-s | --signoff`
  argument, or follow the instructions below for auto-signing). This sign-off certifies that the contribution is your original
  work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license or a compatible license.

* Any contribution which contains commits that are not signed-off will not be accepted.

* To sign off on a commit you simply use the `--signoff` (or `-s`) option when committing your changes:
  ```bash
  $ git commit -s -m "Add cool feature."
  ```
  This will append the following to your commit message:
  ```
  Signed-off-by: Your Name <your@email.com>
  ```

  If you would like this to happen automatically to all of your commits, you can modify
  your local `~/.git-config-template.txt` file. You can do this with a command like the
  following:

  ```
  echo "Signed-off-by: Your Name <your@email.com>" > ~/.git-commit-template.txt
  git config --local commit.template ~/.git-commit-template.txt
  ```

  If you have a commit that you want to retroactively sign, you can do that with:

  ```
  git commit --amend --no-edit --signoff
  ```

* Full text of the DCO:

    ```
    Developer Certificate of Origin
    Version 1.1

    Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.
    1 Letterman Drive
    Suite D4700
    San Francisco, CA, 94129

    Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
    ```

    ```
    Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

    By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

    (a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the open source
    license indicated in the file; or

    (b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate
    open source license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created
    in whole or in part by me, under the same open source license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different
    license), as indicated in the file; or

    (c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not
    modified it.

    (d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution
    (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be
    redistributed consistent with this project or the open source license(s) involved.
    ```

### Developer workflows:

You should always carefully test your changes. Run `pytest ...` in your container locally. All tests are done via `pytest`.

Changes that affect model training accuracy or compute performance should be tested on SLURM.


Developer workflow for _external_ code contributions is as follows:

1. External developers must first [fork](https://help.github.com/en/articles/fork-a-repo) the
[upstream]({{ github_url }}) BioNeMo OSS repository and for BioNeMo2 (this branch) use the `main` branch as base.

2. Clone the forked repository and push changes to the personal fork.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/YOUR_FORK.git bionemo-framework
# Checkout the targeted branch and commit changes
# Push the commits to a branch on the fork (remote).
git push -u origin <local-branch>:<remote-branch>
```

Developer workflow for _internal_ or those developers that have been granted push access to our repository is as follows:

1. Clone this repository locally
2. Create a branch which ideally should be of the form `username/branch_description`
3. Push branch up to our repository `git push -u origin HEAD`


For both internal and external developers, the next step is opening a PR:

1. Once the code changes are staged on the fork and ready for review, a
  [Pull Request](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-pull-requests) (PR) can be
    [requested](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-pull-request) to merge the changes from a branch of the
    fork or branch into `main`.
    * Exercise caution when selecting the source and target branches for the PR.
    Note that versioned releases of TensorRT OSS are posted to `release/` branches of the upstream repo.
    * Creation of a PR creation kicks off the code review process.
    * At least one TensorRT engineer will be assigned for the review.
    * While under review, mark your PRs as work-in-progress by prefixing the PR title with [WIP].
2. Once ready, CI can be started by a developer with permissions when they add a `/build-ci` comment. This must pass
  prior to merging.


### General guidelines

**Send your PRs to the `main` branch**. Branch off from `main` when making your changes.
Prefix your branches with your name or initials (for example, `your_name/branch_description`) if you have push access to
our repository otherwise please create a fork with your branch and submit a PR with `main` as the target.

- Make sure your PR does one thing. Have a clear answer to "What does this PR do?"
- Make sure you have the linters enabled via pre-commit hooks (`pre-commit install`)
- Follow the default PR template
- Make sure all unit tests finish successfully before running PR pipeline by invoking `pytest scripts sub-packages`.
- Make sure you added necessary tests and documentation changes (could be just comments in the config files) for the
  feature in your PR
- Rebase your feature branch with the latest `main` to include any new changes that have been added. Resolve merge
  conflicts, if any
- Send your PR and request a review
- If your PR is still a work in progress, mark it as "Draft"
- Your merge request must pass all pipelines and be peer-reviewed before it can be merged.
- Make sure to merge your PR when it is ready and pipeline is successful

### Unit tests
Contributors to BioNeMo FW are expected to unit test their introduced changes.

After testing your code locally, trigger tests in the PR's CI. Let a code-owner know that you are ready for the build to
 run and they will leave a `/build-ci` comment on your PR which will run the CI test suite.

#### Adding unit tests
Add unit tests under `tests` to examine use cases of new classes or methods that are being added to the codebase. Each
test file must be for a particular file or module. For example if you have a file that is under
`src/path/to/module/my_file_name.py` then your test should match the path at `tests/path/to/module/test_my_file_name.py`.
Check the tests folders in the sub-modules of this repository for examples. If you are testing a module, such as
integrating multiple examples of different files, then you can use the following pattern to test the module, say in the
above example, if you wanted to test functions from several files together that all exist in the same `src/path/to/module`
then you could create a `tests/path/to/test_module.py` file. The same is true for parents of that module and so on.
Generally unit tests should exist at the level of the individual file however.

Commit message:

Final October docs edits (#331)
This PR includes final edits for October release of docs, including:
    - Changing Nemo2 images to `.png` and cropping
    - Fixing broken links throughout docs
    - Adds labeling guidelines to contributing.md per #309

docs/docs/user-guide/contributing/contributing.md, after:

# Contributing Guidelines

!!! note
    For code review standards please see the [Code Review](code-review.md) page.

    For all PRs, an approved NVIDIA staff member must sign off and trigger the continuous integration (CI) tests.
    These are initiated by the member commenting `/build-ci` directly on the PR. All PRs must have successful CI runs and
    sufficient code review before being merged.

## Python Coding Standards

This page contains the Python coding standards for the BioNeMo repository. They apply to all Python code in the
repository (unless external constraints prevent it).

## Coding Style
- We follow the [Google Python Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html) with a few tweaks.
- The most important parts of this style guide that our code must adhere to are:
  - [Docstring](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#381-docstrings)
  - [Mutable global state](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#25-mutable-global-state)
  - [Do not use mutable values as default arguments](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#212-default-argument-values)
  - [Default iterators](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#28-default-iterators-and-operators)
  - [Bad naming / abbreviation](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#316-naming)
- The exceptions to this style guide are:
    + [Module](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#22-imports) imports. If a module is uniquely named, import
    the module. Otherwise, import the value, type, or function directly.
- Linting and formatting of all code is required by using `ruff` with BioNeMo's configured options.
- Unit testing with `pytest`.
- Add type annotations everywhere. In particular, new code should all be type-annotated as thoroughly as possible. This
  also obviates the need for including type hints in the function docstring. It is ok to omit annotations for private
  helper functions, but use your best judgement.
- Include docstrings for every class, function, and method exposed to the user.
    + Docstrings **should** answer (a) what is the code doing and (b) why would someone use it.
- Never use wildcard imports.
- Define `__all__ = (,)` in modules: make explicit the API of each module, auto-documenting the most important definitions.
- Minimize the use of `**kwargs`.
- `raise` an `Exception` instead of using an `assert` statement.
- F-strings are preferred to format strings.
- Loggers are preferred to print. In BioNeMo, you can use logger from `import logging`.
- Private functions (functions starting with ``_``) shouldn't be called outside its host file.

### General Guidelines
- **User-oriented**: make it easy for end users, even at the cost of writing more code in the background
- **Robust**: make it hard for users to make mistakes.
- **Well-tested**: please add simple, fast unit tests.
- **Reusable**: for every piece of code, think about how it can be reused in the future and make it easy to reuse.
- **Readable**: code should be easy to read and well documented (with comments and docstrings).
- **Legal**: if you copy even one line of code from the Internet, make sure that the code allows the license that
  BioNeMo supports. Give credit and link back to the code.
- **Sensible**: code should make sense. If you think a piece of code might be confusing, write comments.
- **Consistent**: we work in a team. It is important to integrate changes with existing code.
- **Readable**: your code should be easy to read and understand by any other engineer, including outside NVIDIA. Some
  tips:
    + Document your code. Make all comments complete sentences, starting with a capitalized letter and ending with a
    period.
    + Avoid abbreviations: 'bn' is harder to understand than 'batch_norm'.
    + Avoid baked-in constants throughout the code. Instead, specify them as parameters to your function. If you must have
    a constant, follow the naming guideline (e.g., `GLOBAL_CONSTANT`).
    + Avoid functions that span hundreds of lines. Large functions are more difficult to read and more difficult to test.
    If >120 lines, consider re-factoring it into smaller logical functions, each unit-tested and well-documented.
    + Re-use code by importing. **Do not copy and paste code.**
    + Usage of third-party code should be legally compatible and attributed.



## Pull Request (PR) Guidelines

### Labeling Your PR

If you are an external contributor (not an NVIDIA employee), please add the `contribution` label to your PR before submitting. Labels can be accessed in the right sidebar of the GitHub user interface when creating or editing a PR.

### Signing Your Work

* We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits (not GPG signing, just adding the `-s | --signoff`
  argument, or follow the instructions below for auto-signing). This sign-off certifies that the contribution is your original
  work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license or a compatible license.

* Any contribution which contains commits that are not signed-off will not be accepted.

* To sign off on a commit you simply use the `--signoff` (or `-s`) option when committing your changes:
  ```bash
  $ git commit -s -m "Add cool feature."
  ```
  This will append the following to your commit message:
  ```
  Signed-off-by: Your Name <your@email.com>
  ```

  If you would like this to happen automatically to all of your commits, you can modify
  your local `~/.git-config-template.txt` file. You can do this with a command like the
  following:

  ```
  echo "Signed-off-by: Your Name <your@email.com>" > ~/.git-commit-template.txt
  git config --local commit.template ~/.git-commit-template.txt
  ```

  If you have a commit that you want to retroactively sign, you can do that with:

  ```
  git commit --amend --no-edit --signoff
  ```

* Full text of the DCO:

    ```
    Developer Certificate of Origin
    Version 1.1

    Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.
    1 Letterman Drive
    Suite D4700
    San Francisco, CA, 94129

    Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
    ```

    ```
    Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

    By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

    (a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the open source
    license indicated in the file; or

    (b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate
    open source license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created
    in whole or in part by me, under the same open source license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different
    license), as indicated in the file; or

    (c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not
    modified it.

    (d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution
    (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be
    redistributed consistent with this project or the open source license(s) involved.
    ```

### Developer workflows:

You should always carefully test your changes. Run `pytest ...` in your container locally. All tests are done via `pytest`.

Changes that affect model training accuracy or compute performance should be tested on SLURM.


Developer workflow for _external_ code contributions is as follows:

1. External developers must first [fork](https://help.github.com/en/articles/fork-a-repo) the
[upstream]({{ github_url }}) BioNeMo OSS repository and for BioNeMo2 (this branch) use the `main` branch as base.

2. Clone the forked repository and push changes to the personal fork.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/YOUR_FORK.git bionemo-framework
# Checkout the targeted branch and commit changes
# Push the commits to a branch on the fork (remote).
git push -u origin <local-branch>:<remote-branch>
```

Developer workflow for _internal_ or those developers that have been granted push access to our repository is as follows:

1. Clone this repository locally
2. Create a branch which ideally should be of the form `username/branch_description`
3. Push branch up to our repository `git push -u origin HEAD`


For both internal and external developers, the next step is opening a PR:

1. Once the code changes are staged on the fork and ready for review, a
  [Pull Request](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-pull-requests) (PR) can be
    [requested](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-pull-request) to merge the changes from a branch of the
    fork or branch into `main`.
    * Exercise caution when selecting the source and target branches for the PR.
    Note that versioned releases of TensorRT OSS are posted to `release/` branches of the upstream repo.
    * Creation of a PR creation kicks off the code review process.
    * At least one TensorRT engineer will be assigned for the review.
    * While under review, mark your PRs as work-in-progress by prefixing the PR title with [WIP].
2. Once ready, CI can be started by a developer with permissions when they add a `/build-ci` comment. This must pass
  prior to merging.


### General guidelines

**Send your PRs to the `main` branch**. Branch off from `main` when making your changes.
Prefix your branches with your name or initials (for example, `your_name/branch_description`) if you have push access to
our repository otherwise please create a fork with your branch and submit a PR with `main` as the target.

- Make sure your PR does one thing. Have a clear answer to "What does this PR do?"
- Make sure you have the linters enabled via pre-commit hooks (`pre-commit install`)
- Follow the default PR template
- Make sure all unit tests finish successfully before running PR pipeline by invoking `pytest scripts sub-packages`.
- Make sure you added necessary tests and documentation changes (could be just comments in the config files) for the
  feature in your PR
- Rebase your feature branch with the latest `main` to include any new changes that have been added. Resolve merge
  conflicts, if any
- Send your PR and request a review
- If your PR is still a work in progress, mark it as "Draft"
- Your merge request must pass all pipelines and be peer-reviewed before it can be merged.
- Make sure to merge your PR when it is ready and pipeline is successful

### Unit tests
Contributors to BioNeMo FW are expected to unit test their introduced changes.

After testing your code locally, trigger tests in the PR's CI. Let a code-owner know that you are ready for the build to
 run and they will leave a `/build-ci` comment on your PR which will run the CI test suite.

#### Adding unit tests
Add unit tests under `tests` to examine use cases of new classes or methods that are being added to the codebase. Each
test file must be for a particular file or module. For example if you have a file that is under
`src/path/to/module/my_file_name.py` then your test should match the path at `tests/path/to/module/test_my_file_name.py`.
Check the tests folders in the sub-modules of this repository for examples. If you are testing a module, such as
integrating multiple examples of different files, then you can use the following pattern to test the module, say in the
above example, if you wanted to test functions from several files together that all exist in the same `src/path/to/module`
then you could create a `tests/path/to/test_module.py` file. The same is true for parents of that module and so on.
Generally unit tests should exist at the level of the individual file however.
